# Front matter

The title page bears the text 'GINGER / KEVIN DU', which reads like a title and
author. 'ginger', 'kevin' and 'du' are all words in the language; they could
literally mean 'ginger' and Kevin Du, but let's not assume. 'ginger' and 'kevin'
are 'sj' (nouns) and 'du' is a 'hh'.

The first text in the book after the apparent title and author is:

    LIZU KTAP
    DUDI. SAOLED
    CXQKU. ZUOGU

These are defined as:

    lizu [1, hh]   = yra zuf xyt.
    ktap [24, sj]  = vh wux kytu f sjlup. asre kevin kytu f deda.
    ktap [24, k]   = ja ukaji el je akydep.

    dudi [3, sj]   = yre axuaxf kazuqr. suja je ulilu f vh yra. yamte kakakaw yra je aiqr.
    saoled [0, sj] = yre taguqr. dudi kabu.

    cxqku [1, sj]  = yre axuaxf kazuqr. hatel kadu.
    zuogu [1, sj]  = yre taguqr. hatel kadu.

'lizu ktap' is listed as the game's publisher on Steam, and links to Kevin Du's
page; https://store.steampowered.com/publisher/kevindu. I'm not sure that means
'lizu ktap' means 'Kevin Du' though since only 'ktap' is a 'sj' (noun) or 'k'
(verb). It appears again in 'vh steam lizu ktap ppt', having the form '<r> <sj>
lizu ktap <k>'. It is possible that 'steam' literally means Steam, and the verb
'ppt' means 'publish'. 'vh' would then be a preposition like 'on' or 'in' or
'to' or 'by'. 'r' is a word type with only 13 instances.

A few commonalities appear here in the other definitions:

- Both 'dudi' and 'cxqku' are partly defined as 'yre axuaxf kazuqr'.
- Both 'saoled' and 'zuogu' are partly defined as 'yre taguqr'.
- Both 'cxqku' and 'zuogu' are partly defined as 'hatel kadu'.
- 'saoled' references 'dudi' in its definition via 'dudi kabu'.

All these terms are 'sj' (nouns), so if 'yre' means 'a', then 'dudi' and 'cxqku'
are instances of the same type of thing, ditto for 'saoled' and 'zuogu'.

'dudi' and 'cxqku' appear together again in the phrase 'vh cxqku ee dudi kytu'.
This is followed by:

    yre yh yre botvi cxhht. dudi. DD4 6JE

This is an address; 'yre yh yre' is 101, and DD4 6JE is a postcode in Dundee,
Scotland. It is the address of the Craigtay Hotel, 101 Broughty Ferry Road
(Kevin has confirmed this). It's reasonable to assume that 'dudi' means Dundee
and therefore 'kazuqr' means town/city. 'botvi' and 'cxhht' are both nouns;
either could mean street or road. 'axuaxf' in 'axuaxf kazuqr' could be an
adjective; it has type 'e' and 'e' is a very numerous type, so 'e' could be
'adjective'.

Looking at the definitions for 'botvi' and 'cxhht':

    botvi [0]
        sj.
            yre vs dudi aohjg l aiqr. sasih tlah.

    cxhht [22]
        sj.
            1: rik f sjlup in hgasi.
            2: ju kazuqr ee kazuqr ahk rik f yele sjlup.
            3: gaeif z l rik.

'botvi' is never used whereas 'cxhht' mentions 'ju kazuqr ee kazuqr ahk rik' --
possibly talking about moving ('rik', see below) from 'kazuqr' to 'kazuqr'.
Seems more likely that 'cxhht' means 'road', and 'kazuqr' could mean something
less specific, like 'place'.

Note that 'kazuqr' and 'taguqr' both end 'uqr' so possibly this suffix means the
word denotes a kind of place/locale/region. The only other words with this suffix
are:

    fgauqr [0, i] = law l airli ji. dku zkehu ehu lela vda. aokasx jeqr duta.
    chla z vlzu l airli ji.

    jipuqr [2, sj] = ahk duta f yra.

'jipuqr' is a noun so this could work, but 'fgauqr' is an 'i'. We don't know
what an 'i' is but most of them are unused and have longer bodies of text in
their definitions, so maybe these are story items? I also wonder if one of these
words means 'home', as in 'Kevin wants to know what home is'.

The above commonalities, the relation of 'saoled' to 'dudi' by a single verb,
and the phrasing of 'DUDI. SAOLED' and 'CXQKU. ZUOGU' suggests to me that
'saoled' and 'zuogu' are countries, or at least something larger than a city,
like a county, state or province. If country, that would make 'saoled' Scotland,
and 'kabu' would mean 'contain'. 'saoled' is not used anywhere else, but 'zuogu'
is:

    zuax [1, sj] = zuogu aiqr f liaax z utu lela.

We also see 'taguqr' and 'kazuqr' related by definition:

    taguqr [5, sj] = uxaux kazuqr kadu f uxauxf sjlup. siuai jaraq vh yra ginger
    dkdg. yre geib yra dkdg.

We also see one other town/city is defined; note 'uxauxf' rather than 'axuaxf':

    sjamhe [1, sj] = yre uxauxf kazuqr. vt yra uzuini ji.

We do not yet know what 'hatel' means but its definition has an interesting
repeating clause:

    hatel [3, sj] = gerg z (je bebak f sjlup). aosiple subteta (je bebak f sjlup).

'kadu' and 'kabu' are somehow related:

    kabu [3, k]  = yra sjlup yra invh kadu.
    kadu [55, k] = vh yra ji.

If 'ji' means 'be' and 'vh' means 'on/in/by' then 'kadu' could mean 'be in' or
'be by' etc. Possibly it means the opposite of 'kabu'. If 'taguqr' actually
means something smaller than 'town/city' then the meanings of 'kabu' and 'kadu'
would be swapped.

We've also seen some uses of words related to others via 'kap', e.g. 'axuaxf',
'uxaux'/'uxauxf', 'invh'.


## Rumi quote

The quote attributed to Rumi is:

    sxk ja ja hji. lpubl cjja osih ee cjje sasih ja ji.

Or as word types:

    <hh> <cj> <cj> <k>. <bu> <e> <sj> <bu> <e> <sj> <cj> <k>.

Here are the definitions of these words:

    sxk [6, hh]   = 1: sxuk axuax deqhm. 2: yk yra beax.
    ja [90, cj]   = pdepr beax.
    hji [65, k]   = kap ji.
    lpubl [9, bu] = 1: vh siuaa vzt kysi. 2: siuaa sxresh subtet ee subtat kadu.
    cjja [10, e]  = subtatef gato baali.
    osih [1, sj]  = vh gudih f cjja sjlup.
    ee [121, bu]  = ju yra yra shlp deqhm. cxla ysi gega shlp.
    cjje [8, e]   = subtetaf gato baali.
    sasih [4, sj] = sxzu saqr dkdg f sjlup.
    ja [90, cj]   = pdepr beax.
    ji [308, k]   = 1: beba. 2: qrexzt deqhm.

Each phrase contains a single verb, 'hji' or 'ji', where 'hji' is defined as
'kap ji'. The first phrase contains a repeated 'ja', which is a 'cj', a type
with only 15 members. Could be an intensifier of some kind?

The second phrase contains two e-sj (adjective noun) phrases, 'cjja osih' and
'cjje sasih'. 'cjja' and 'cjje' some closely related, being 'subtatef/subtetaf
gato baali'. 'osih' mentions 'cjja' in its own definition. 'osih' and 'sasih'
have a similar suffix, and are the only words ending 'sih', and both mention the
noun 'sjlup'.


## Controls

The first instruction you're given in the game is 'ket' telling you to press a
button. 'ket' is a verb but not seem to identify that button's specific
function; this instruction can point at different buttons, and all the game's
functions are given other names on the following pages. Let's assume 'ket' means
'press' or 'touch'.

The input labelled 'xhjr' navigates to the end of the book, its definition is:

    xhjr [12, k]  = vk heba.
    xhjr [12, sj] = heba.

Its noun form means the same as 'heba', which is a verb. Unsure what to make of
this. At the end of the book the words 'xhjr pu' appear, and pressing the same
input exits the game. 'pu' is of type 'q', so not a noun or verb. Could be it's
a modifier for a verb and these instructions mean 'end' or 'exit' or 'the end'
or 'really exit'.

The input labelled 'rik' moves the view around. Could mean 'move', 'scroll',
'pan', 'look', things of this nature.

The words 'subtet' and 'subtat' appear in the control instructions and label the
buttons to go to the previous and next page, respectively. Their definitions,
and some others that share the 'subt' prefix, are:

    subtet [24, sj]  = subteta lela in deda in sxresh in hgasi.
    subteta [20, e]  = alpp tlah.
    subtetaf [5, hh] = hgasi z subtet dkdg.

    subtat [28, sj]  = subtate lela in deda in sxresh in hgasi.
    subtate [19, e]  = zucjch tlah.
    subtatef [8, hh] = hgasi z subtat dkdg.

These two groups differ only in the words 'alpp' (birth or start) and 'zucjch'
(death or end). We can infer these words are noun/adjective/'hh' (?) forms
related to moving forwards or backwards in some sense, either in space or time,
or through a sequence of things.

Quite a few other words in the dictionary seem to have variants spelled with an
'e' or 'a' that correspond to a use of 'subtet' or 'subtat'.

Note the noun form 'subtat' has the grammar:

    subtate lela in deda in sxresh in hgasi
    <e>     <sj> in <sj> in <sj>   in <sj>

If 'subtate' is the adjective 'next' or 'later' then the noun form refers to a
_thing_ that is next. This list of nouns separated by 'in' suggests that 'in'
means 'or' and the nouns are various different types of object.

The main uses of these words for next/previous come in the form of nouns,
adjectives, and adverbs, so it's possible 'hh' means 'adverb'. However there are
only 32 'hh' words so that doesn't feel right.

Let's look at the verb 'tlah' used in 'subteta'/'subtate':

    tlah [5, k] = aohjg yra kabu.

We believe 'kabu' may mean 'contain'. How do you get an adjective like 'next' or
'later' by applying a verb to the noun 'end'? You'd need a definition like 'in
the direction of the end', or 'in the direction containing the end'. Now look at
'aohjg':

    aohjg [3, hh] = 1: vs ju yra sxk erisula yra kadu.
                    2: dest in dast ju yra kyv o yra kyv.

We can't yet make much sense of defn 1, but 2 is partly translated:

    dest <or> dast <add/plus> yra kyv <to/and> yra kyv

'dest' and 'dast' are another pair of opposites related to the 'subt' words, and
there's another word 'dust' in this family:

    dest [13, bu] = sxresh kyv f vh subteta vzt deqhm.
    dast [4, bu]  = sxresh kyv f vh subtate vzt deqhm.
    dust [25, bu] = sxresh kyv f vh vzt deqhm.

If 'dest' relates to something before, and 'dast' to something after, it seems
like 'dust' is a less specific term due to the removal of the back/forward
adjective.

'sxresh' and 'deqhm' are nouns we've seen above. 'kyv' and 'vzt' are also nouns.
'deqhm' and 'kyv' are also verbs. It feels like verbs occur at the end of
clauses so a possile parse of these is:

    sxresh kyv f    vh  subteta vzt  deqhm
    <sj>   <k> <bu> <r> <e>     <sj> <k>
