# numbers

The entries with type 'y' often have a definition of the form 'X = ju Y jre'.
They can be arranged into a sequence where each definition refers to the one
before it:

ysi   = ju yre yre
yamte = ju ysi yre
yer   = ju yamte yre
ysx   = ju yer yre
ycx   = ju ysx yre
yux   = ju ycx yre
yax   = ju yux yre
yex   = ju yax yre

This chain of definitions where each one applies the same construction to the
one before it strongly suggests these are a sequence of things, and there being
10 items in this category suggests they're numbers.

The construction 'ju X yre' means 'add 1 to X'. The repetition of 'yre' in 'ju
yre yre' suggests that 'yre' means 'one' and 'ju' (hh) means 'add' or 'plus'.
Although, 'hh' has only 32 words and it's more likely that 'k' means 'verb' (see
below), so maybe 'ju' is a comparative term like 'after' or 'more than', or a
combining word like 'with'.

'yh' is defined as 'tta yre'. By elimination this is most likely 'zero' and so
'tta' (e) could mean 'less than' or 'before' or 'absence of'.

Note that numbers 1, 2 and 3 have definitions for other types: 'yre' (a), 'ysi'
(a), and 'yamte' (sj). 'One' could also mean 'a' (indefinite article) and 'two'
could mean 'both'.

Looking for other entries that use numbers, only one entry uses zero: 'zuli',
meaning 'zuli' (sj), meaning 'yater z eguux jakch f yra lela. yre ysi yh yux
alpp ji o yre ysi yux yamte zucjch ji.' The second sentence translates to '1 2 0
7 alpp ji o 1 2 7 3 zucjch ji'. These look like dates; searching for "born 1207
died 1273" points to the Persian poet Rumi. The only place 'zuli' is used in the
book resembles a quote citation which strongly suggests this is a person's name.

This definition has two sub-classes of the form '<date> X ji', separated by 'o'.
This suggests 'ji' means 'to be' or 'to have', 'alpp' means 'start' or
'birth', 'zucjch' means 'end' or 'death', and 'o' means 'to' or 'and'. 'ji' is
the most commonly used word in the dictionary so 'be' or 'have' seem like likely
meanings.

'zuli' is of type 'sj', the most common type, so 'sj' most likely means 'noun'.
'ji' is of type 'k', the second most common type, which is probably verbs.
